So welcome back, guys.
Now let us discuss one complete example which illustrates the concept and mechanism of procedure.
Call through this example.
We will understand the role of all these three registers that we just discussed and how these three
register makes the procedure call mechanism feasible.
So let us suppose that in our example, we have three functions function F one in walks, function F
two, function afta to walks, function after.
So here you can see that we have a function F one and function F one invokes the function after you
can see that the address of the instruction which invokes the function F two is one zero zero two.
That is hexadecimal when you.
Similarly, you have function afta and inside this function, after you have certain computations and
eventually function AFTA invokes function F three using instruction, using instruction whose address
is two zero zero four.
So remember, every instruction also has to address.
And finally, we have a function three which do not involve any other function and it just perform its
local computation and returns.
So now let us discuss that at the instant when function F one was executing, how was it a stack frame
looked like?
So you can see in this diagram I have shown the stack frame of the function F one.
The numbers which are written on the left hand side actually represents the address of the stack memory,
which decreases downwards.
Right.
And you can see that in this stack frame of function, one, we have first pushed the arguments of the
function, one in the reverse order.
Then we have the return address of the function zero.
Now let us suppose that function zero is the color of the function one.
And the next thing that is installed in the stack memory of frame F one is the best pointer of the value
of the function, which is function zero.
And finally, in this stack frame of function F1, we have the local variables of function F one.
So you can see that this diagram actually represents the complete stack frame of the function EF1 one
function F one was an execution.
So EIB, that is the register which sterols the address of the executed construction.
So IP is the address of instruction in execution.
Since F1 is currently executing, Hans IP will install the address of instruction which is being executed.
IP keeps on incrementing as subsequent instructions are executed.
Right.
So IP is registered with the address of the instruction which is being executed.
So IP will store the address of this instruction that this instruction than this instruction and so
on.
So when the frame F1 was in a state of execution, the value of IP stores, the address of that instruction
which is currently executed.
But what about the value of SBP and E.S.P?
So remind the definition of SBP and E.S.P.
SBP is a register which stores the address.
Of the current stack frame, their best pointed to the value of the column function was saved.
So you can see in this diagram that the best pointer registered value of the function is saved him.
So what is the address in which this base pointer value is saved that addresses it before?
Therefore, when the function F one was in a state of execution, the value of this pointer register
will be eighty four.
Similarly, apply the definition.
E.S.P is a pointer which always points to the bottom of the stack memory.
Now, at this point of time, the bottommost frame in the stack memory is the stack frame of the function.
EF1 and therefore E.S.P value will be the bottommost address.
That is the Atlas seventy six.
Now let us suppose that the function F one has triggered or invoked the function F to write.
So the address of the instruction which is responsible to invoke the function F two is one zero zero
two.
So when the function F1 invokes the function F to, the very first thing that will happen is to push
the arguments of the function f to understand memory so we can see that we are now setting up the static
frame of the function F two.
And you can see that the very first thing that we have done is to push the arguments of the function
F two in the reverse order in the stack memory.
Now, I will ask one question when the function afterwards invoke what was the value of IP register,
right?
The value of IP register will be one zero zero two because it was this instruction which caused the
invocation of the function F to.
Therefore, the current instruction which was executing is the instruction with address one zero zero
two.
And it has this value which is stored in IP.
So the next thing that we will going to do is to restore the old value of instruction pointer in this
stack frame of function F two.
So here you can see that we have stored one zero zero two.
That is the value of instruction pointer register in the stack memory of frame after.
Now, the next thing is to stir the base point to registered value of the collar function.
Now, at this point of time, SBP Register stauss the atrocity for therefore we will store the caller's
best point of registered value into the stock memory of the frame after.
So we can see that the old value of this point to register that is eighty four is copied into the stack
memory of the frame F2 and now as a final step, local convertible of the current frame will be pushed
into the stack memory.
So let us assume that this represents the local variable of the frame F2 and you can see that the local
variables are the last thing that is pushed into the stack memory.
Now the frame which is at the top of the stack is the frame F2 and we should set up the best to register
value and Stackpole to register value as per the current frame.
So baseball will now going to store 60 because at this address, the caller's base, pointless to value,
is saved in that stack frame of function after so going by the definition based on the register will
be updated to store the address will respond to registered value of the caller function is stored in
the current stack frame.
So it will be updated to 60 because 60 is the address will be able to register.
The value of the caller function is saved in the current stack frame and now the address of the top
of the stack is 52.
Therefore, E.S.P Register will be updated to store the address 52.
So you can see that the green and orange slabs are four byte each.
So you can see this is for Byte and this is for byte on a 32 bit system.
If it was 64 bit system than these green and orange slabs would have been eight bytes.
So green and orange slabs are four byte each and are used to store historical data that is called frames
information.
This information helps the caller to resume its execution when called returns.
So we will see that how the content of Orient and Glena Slab of the function is used by the caller function
to resume its execution when calling function returns.
So when caller invokes the calling function, the current value of SBP and EIP are saved in the stack
frame, right?
So you see that as soon as quality function is involved in the stack frame of the function, we copy
the IP and SBP register values in the stack frame of the calling function.
And as soon as we copy the IP and SBP Register Values, SBP and IP registers are updated as protocol
is a static frame.
Right.
So first we copy the old value of SBP and IP into the stack frame of the function.
And immediately after copying these values, we update these registers with the new values as per the
stack frame of the function.
So to be more clear, let us see one more example.
Suppose the function F to execute and finally execute the instruction to zero zero four.
So as a result of execution of instruction to 004 function, F three will be invoked.
That means now we need to push that static frame of the function F3 into the stack memory so you can
see that first we will push the arguments that is to the function F three to the stack memory.
Right.
Now, when the function after he was involved, IP content was to 004, so Scoppetta content of IP register
and to the stack memory of the function of three.
Next, we need to copy the value of this point to register.
So at this point of time, the best part is to value content 60.
So just copy the value of 60 into the stack frame of the function.
Three.
Right.
And now as a final step, the local variables of the function F3.
And now we will update the best pointer register value and the stack pointers to value to point to the
new stack frame of the function F3.
So you can see that in this entire mechanism, the value of three registers, that is IPB and E.S.P
keeps on updating as the new stack frame is posted to the stack.
Also, note that the callers SBP IP are saved into the Cawley's stack frame.
And, of course, the E.S.P that always stores the address, which is at the bottom of the stack mummery.